Paul Connors was standing below the guard tower getting ready to interview Joseph Boghadair who was currently manning one of the tower's machine gun posts. The sentinels were always jumpy because this new FOB was still waiting for the installation of the concrete barriers that would form a maze around the roads to prevent IED suicide attacks. And sure enough, right out of Connors' worst nightmares, looking straight out of the fence he could see a large vehicle exiting the highway about a mile and a quarter away and turning onto the road leading to the base. Looking through his binoculars he could see it was an enormous dump truck that had some sort of steel plate bolted onto the front and wrapping around behind. This was a truck bomb but it was the mother of all truck bombs. Connors swarmed up the tower's ladder and set up behind one of the two large machine guns in the tower. He said, "Bogey, what is there time to do?"

Boghadair was behind the other machine gun and without looking at Connors he said, "Barely enough time to say your prayers and start shooting at that truck." Connors asked, "Can we shoot through that plate?" "No, it's too thick and they even have the tires blocked. And they'll be coming straight on so I don't think I'll be able to get a shot through the side. I think the only target is the slot they left for the driver to see through." Connors asked, "You're going to try to hit the driver?" "No, he's going to point that thing at us and mostly duck down while he's driving. Our only chance is to get a slug through the cab and into the payload." Connors looked at the truck that was now less than a mile off and said, "I can barely see that slot. You think you can do this?" Bogey looked at him for the first time and said, "We better both hope that I can."

Both gunners sighted on the slot in the armor and began firing. Connors saw his rounds impacting the armor and tried adjusting his aim to hit the slot but his rounds were dancing all over the plate with almost random results. But he could see Bogey's impacts were very close to the slot. The truck kept rolling on and had reached at least 50 miles per hour and was less than half a mile from the fence. Realizing that he wasn't going to get the shot Connors took his radio and called in the threat hoping that most of the base personnel could find some kind of shelter in the seconds that were left. The truck was now less than a hundred yards out and Connors did say a prayer. And then he saw the flash. Both soldiers dropped to the floor by instinct. When the shock wave hit the tower it sent the whole structure airborne. Later when the rescue group found them amid the wreckage of the fence and guard tower, they looked like rag dolls that had been tossed on the ground by some giant child. They were banged up and unconscious, but alive and in one piece.
